## Rust Utilities

* Cargo, the included dependency manager and build tool, makes adding,
  compiling, and managing dependencies painless and consistent across the Rust
  ecosystem.
* The Rustfmt formatting tool ensures a consistent coding style across
  developers.
* The Rust Language Server powers Integrated Development Environment (IDE)
  integration for code completion and inline error messages.

By using these and other tools in the Rust ecosystem, developers can be
productive while writing systems-level code.

## Reading Guide

You’ll find two kinds of chapters in this book: concept chapters and project
chapters. In concept chapters, you’ll learn about an aspect of Rust. In project
chapters, we’ll build small programs together, applying what you’ve learned so
far. Chapters 2, 12, and 20 are project chapters; the rest are concept chapters.

Chapter 1 explains how to install Rust, how to write a “Hello, world!” program,
and how to use Cargo, Rust’s package manager and build tool. Chapter 2 is a
hands-on introduction to writing a program in Rust, having you build up a
number guessing game. Here we cover concepts at a high level, and later
chapters will provide additional detail. If you want to get your hands dirty
right away, Chapter 2 is the place for that. Chapter 3 covers Rust features
that are similar to those of other programming languages, and in Chapter 4
you’ll learn about Rust’s ownership system. If you’re a particularly meticulous
learner who prefers to learn every detail before moving on to the next, you
might want to skip Chapter 2 and go straight to Chapter 3, returning to Chapter
2 when you’d like to work on a project applying the details you’ve learned.

Chapter 5 discusses structs and methods, and Chapter 6 covers enums, `match`
expressions, and the `if let` control flow construct. You’ll use structs and
enums to make custom types in Rust.

In Chapter 7, you’ll learn about Rust’s module system and about privacy rules
for organizing your code and its public Application Programming Interface
(API). Chapter 8 discusses some common collection data structures that the
standard library provides, such as vectors, strings, and hash maps. Chapter 9
explores Rust’s error-handling philosophy and techniques.

Chapter 10 digs into generics, traits, and lifetimes, which give you the power
to define code that applies to multiple types. Chapter 11 is all about testing,
which even with Rust’s safety guarantees is necessary to ensure your program’s
logic is correct. In Chapter 12, we’ll build our own implementation of a subset
of functionality from the `grep` command line tool that searches for text
within files. For this, we’ll use many of the concepts we discussed in the
previous chapters.

Chapter 13 explores closures and iterators: features of Rust that come from
functional programming languages. In Chapter 14, we’ll examine Cargo in more
depth and talk about best practices for sharing your libraries with others.
Chapter 15 discusses smart pointers that the standard library provides and the
traits that enable their functionality.

In Chapter 16, we’ll walk through different models of concurrent programming
and talk about how Rust helps you to program in multiple threads fearlessly.
Chapter 17 looks at how Rust idioms compare to object-oriented programming
principles you might be familiar with.

Finally, some appendices contain useful information about the language in a
more reference-like format. Appendix A covers Rust’s keywords, Appendix B
covers Rust’s operators and symbols, Appendix C covers derivable traits
provided by the standard library, Appendix D covers some useful development
tools, and Appendix E explains Rust editions.

There is no wrong way to read this book: if you want to skip ahead, go for it!
You might have to jump back to earlier chapters if you experience any
confusion. But do whatever works for you.
